Mod WP
================
Mod WP is a WordPress installer that enables you to modify the installation of 
WordPress to install custom content, themes and plugins. 



##History


1.0
-----------

5.9.2016 - Initial commit forked from WP Quick Install 1.4.2 by Jonathan Buttigieg
6.22.2016 - Initial Release

The following changes were made from the original WP Quick Install fork:
* The code was refactored into a PHP class that does the heavy lifting
* Command Line Support was added
* A different front end was added, replacing nearly all the original html and javascript
* The original javascript used separate ajax requests for each installation action. The new script loops through a configurable array of actions supplied by the server side script to repeatedly call the same ajax call until all actions are completed. This allows greater flexibility in adding or re-ordering actions without having to edit the javascript.
* The original script parsed ini files for configuration. Mod WP instead uses 2 configuration files that are PHP scripts. The reason ini files were abandones was due to an apparent bug that prevented the ini parser to handle complex passwords.
* Passwords are handled more securely - the database password is never revealed or editable on the browser page, and the WP admin password is automatically generated by a cryptographically secure function with no option for the user to create their own. This not only ensures a strong password, but it also means there is no risk that the same password will be used for each new installation.
* Configuration options were renamed to be more consistent with WordPress standards.  See the Configuration section for more detail.
* Site Profiles were added. Profiles contain non-site specific installation options such as which  plugins and themes should be installed. They should not contain any options that require you to specify a options that can't be used for multiple sites (for example, domain name or admin user name)

